All right.
Let's figure out how to use the read it to function.
I'm going to go back over to my editor to get started over here.
I'm going to call that function with F S dots read dir and notice that these DIR OF SEE ME THE D of
the word dir is lowercase.
Then we have to figure out the different arguments that this function takes.
If we read the documentation it's going to tell us exactly what to pass in the first thing we're gonna
pass in is the path or essentially the directory that we want to open up.
In this case let's try to open up the same directory that our project is in.
So in other words I want to open up the list directory that we just created and printout all the files
and folders inside there to indicate that we want to open up that current directory right there.
We can put in a dot like so inside of a string that is just one way to indicate that we want to open
up this current directory.
There are several other ways as well that we'll take a look at.
But right now we can just put in a dot like so the second argument is then a little bit more complicated.
You'll notice that the documentation right here says that it takes this function takes three arguments.
In reality it can optionally take two.
So either two or three square brackets around the argument that says options means that that argument
right there is optional.
So we can either pass in half an options object and a callback or we can pass in just path and just
a callback.
In our case we don't need to pass in any options.
So we're going to leave off that second argument entirely instead.
We're just going to throw in right away.
A callback function after node reaches out to this current directory that we're trying to open up and
finds all the different files inside there.
It's going to run this callback function with two different arguments.
The first argument is going to be an air object.
Now it's not guaranteed that an error is going to occur when we try to open up this directory instead
if something goes wrong while opening up that directory and finding all the files node is going to color
callback with the first argument of an air object if there is no error then the first argument is going
to instead be no so let's try to write out some code to handle that makeover in my editor.
I got passed in a callback function and I'll add in the first arguments like I said it's going to be
an air object.
We usually abbreviate this simply with e r.
So now inside of this callback function there are two possibilities that we need to handle either air
is equal to an air object which means something went wrong or air is equal to no which means everything
is OK in other words we open up that directory and read all the files in there successfully.
So it is up to you and me to write out some code to check the value of that argument right there and
see if it is equal to nil or if it is equal to some kind of air object.
The easiest way to do this is to write out something like this will say if error then add in some error
handling code here.
So why does this work.
Well if we do an if statement on the value null valuable is falsely which means that the inner heart
or the body the if statement is never going to be executed.
We're essentially saying if air is defined if it is in air object then run this the body of this statement.
Otherwise if errors null we're going to skip over that statement entirely though inside of here we can
do some error handling in a variety of different ways.
We can do a simple console log of air or we could do throw new air and pass in that air object.
It's really up to us as engineers to decide what is most appropriate.
I will say that if we do a console log like so then that's just going to console like the air and tell
you and I that's something wrong just occurred.
But if we just do a console log that means that we're then going to continue on and run all the other
code inside this function which might not be the best thing in the world we might not want to run any
other code inside of here.
If we did not successfully read all the files inside of that directory just think about it if we didn't
get a list of the files in this directory.
What else is there for our program to do.
Do we want to run any other code inside this function.
Well usually probably not so we usually have to think about exactly what we want to do at every step.
If an error did occur it might just be a console log especially for just putting together some kind
of fun project or learning node.
Just getting started but in a more serious setting there might be some more important things to do here.
It will be somewhat common for you to want to return the air or simply not return the air but do a console
log of the air and then return all together so that we don't run any other coincide this function or
alternatively like I mentioned we might just throw a new air and pass in the air that occurred
OK.
So right now I'm going to do a console log of that air and I won't change it again I know I just changed
it like four times in a row I was going to leave it like that.
Now the second argument Joy callback function is going to be the data that we were actually looking
for.
It's going to be an array of strings with the names of all the different files and directory inside
of this current folder.
So I'm going to receive that argument as a variable that I'll call file names I'm also going to clean
up some of the comments inside of here.
Just to simplify things a little bit.
Then after the if statement I'll do a console log of file names and I just saw I misspelt names.
I'm going to fix that up really quickly.
All right.
So right here what we have should be enough to actually run at our terminal and get some results see
the different files inside of the list directory get council logged out so I can go back over to my
terminal.
I'm going to run node index dot J.S. and sure enough we see a print up of all the different files inside
there which right now is just the index dot J.S. file.
So this definitely worked out Leslie when I mentioned here is that this kind of pattern of passing in
a callback function as the last argument to read dir and getting arguments to it of some air object
and some files or some data is extremely common in node J.S..
So if we take a look at some of the other functions of able to us try to take a look at just about any
other function inside of this file or on this documentation page that doesn't have the word sync in
the title.
So for example the one underneath that sink ignore that one in any other one that has the word sink
for just a moment.
If you look at just about any other function inside of here you're going to notice that the last argument
is a callback and in every scenario the first argument is some kind of error and then the second or
third is the actual data that we're looking for.
So we can see that is the case for this read function if we take a look at open Dir.
Same thing.
There is a callback as the last argument that takes an error and also gets the second argument of the
thing we were actually trying to accomplish.
We can go even more up here.
We'll see the open function.
Same thing callback with air and some data.
So this is an extremely common pattern that we're going to see and no G.S. again and again and again
in so many locations we're going to have a third argument or some last argument of a callback function
that takes an air and some data and then inside the callback we'll take a look see if an error occurred
if it did.
We'll handle it otherwise we'll continue on and work with the data that we're looking for okay.
So now we understand that we're going to see that pattern over and over and over.
Quick break.
Continue on this app in just a moment.